Reorganize ACK section (#2197)
quicwg/base-drafts: draft-ietf-quic-transport.md

Strategies and implications of the frequency of generating acknowledgments are
discussed in more detail in {{QUIC-RECOVERY}}.

To limit the ranges of acknowledged packet numbers to those that have not yet
been received by the sender, the receiver SHOULD track which ACK frames have
been acknowledged by its peer.  Once an ACK frame has been acknowledged, the

> packets it acknowledges SHOULD NOT be acknowledged again.

Author: FWIW, I agree.  #2199

> packets it acknowledges SHOULD NOT be acknowledged again.

Reviewer: How about: ... _Once an ACK frame has been acknowledged, it is RECOMMENDED to not repeat acknowledgement of the same packets._ The point is, there is no harm whatsoever in repeating the range multiple times, but it is good practice to keep ACK frames short.

> packets it acknowledges SHOULD NOT be acknowledged again.

Reviewer 2: +1 to Christian's suggestion or something along those lines.

> packets it acknowledges SHOULD NOT be acknowledged again.

Reviewer 3: ... Once an ACK frame has been acknowledged, it is RECOMMENDED to not repeat acknowledgement of the same packets whenever this can reduce the overall size of the next ACK frame.

  larger range of values with a shorter encoding at the cost of lower
  resolution.

ACK Range Count:

: A variable-length integer specifying the number of Gap and ACK Range fields in
  the frame.

First ACK Range:

: A variable-length integer indicating the number of contiguous packets

>   preceding the Largest Acknowledged that are being acknowledged.

Reviewer 4: I think some more text about parsing this needs to be moved up. How about adding something like: 

"The smallest value in this range is determined by the formula:
~~~
   smallest = Largest Acknowledged - First ACK Range
~~~

The First ACK range acknowledges all packet numbers between the smallest and the Largest Acknowledged, inclusive."

+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                           [Gap (i)]                        ...
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                          [ACK Range (i)]                    ...
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
                               ...
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                           [Gap (i)]                        ...
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                          [ACK Range (i)]                    ...
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
~~~
{: #ack-range-format title="ACK Ranges"}

Gap and ACK Range fields use a relative integer encoding for efficiency.  Though
each encoded value is positive, the values are subtracted, so that each ACK
Range describes progressively lower-numbered packets.

Each ACK Range acknowledges a contiguous range of packets by indicating the
number of acknowledged packets that precede the largest packet number in that
range.  A value of zero indicates that only the largest packet number is

> acknowledged.  Larger ACK range values indicate a larger range, with

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
acknowledged.  Larger ACK Range values indicate a larger range, with
```

corresponding lower values for the smallest packet number in the range.  Thus,
given a largest packet number for the range, the smallest value is determined by
the formula:

~~~
   smallest = largest - ack_range
~~~

The packets that are acknowledged by the ACK Range include the range from the

> smallest packet number to the largest, inclusive.

Reviewer 4: Suggestion: "An ACK Range acknowledges all packet numbers between the smallest packet number and the largest, inclusive."

The largest packet number value for the First ACK Range is determined by the

> Largest Acknowledged field; the largest value for subsequent ACK Range fields is

Reviewer 4: Remove this first part about First ACK Range. Start the sentence with: "The largest value for an ACK Range is determined by ..."

determined by cumulatively subtracting the size of all preceding ACK Range and
Gap fields.

Each Gap field indicates a range of packets that are not being acknowledged.
The number of packets in the gap is one higher than the encoded value of the Gap
field.

The value of the Gap field establishes the largest packet number value for the

> ACK Range that follows the gap using the following formula:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
subsequent ACK Range, using the following formula:
```

~~~
  largest = previous_smallest - gap - 2
~~~

> If the calculated value for largest or smallest packet number for any ACK Range

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
If any of these computed packet numbers
```

is negative, an endpoint MUST generate a connection error of type
FRAME_ENCODING_ERROR indicating an error in an ACK frame.

> The fields that form the ACK Ranges field are:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The fields that form the ACK Ranges are:
```

Reviewer 4: This should be moved above, to before the entire description of how ACK ranges are to be parsed. Probably to the top of {{ack-range-section}}.

corresponding lower values for the smallest packet number in the range.  Thus,
given a largest packet number for the range, the smallest value is determined by
the formula:

~~~
   smallest = largest - ack_range
~~~

An ACK Range acknowledges all packet numbers between the smallest packet number
and the largest, inclusive.

The largest value for an ACK Range is determined by cumulatively subtracting the
size of all preceding ACK Ranges and Gaps.

Each Gap indicates a range of packets that are not being acknowledged.  The
number of packets in the gap is one higher than the encoded value of the Gap
field.

The value of the Gap field establishes the largest packet number value for the
subsequent ACK Range using the following formula:

~~~
   largest = previous_smallest - gap - 2
~~~

If any computed packet number is negative, an endpoint MUST generate a
connection error of type FRAME_ENCODING_ERROR indicating an error in an ACK
frame.

### ECN Counts {#ack-ecn-counts}

The ACK frame uses the least significant bit (that is, type 0x03) to indicate
ECN feedback and report receipt of QUIC packets with associated ECN codepoints

> of ECT(0), ECT(1), or CE in the packet's IP header.  The ECN section is only

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
of ECT(0), ECT(1), or CE in the packet's IP header.  ECN Counts are only
```

present when the ACK frame type is 0x03.

> The ECN section should only be parsed when the ACK frame type is 0x03.  The ECN

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
ECN Counts should only be parsed when the ACK frame type is 0x03.  The ECN
```

> section consists of 3 ECN counts as follows:

Reviewer 4: three ECN counts, as follows:

+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
~~~

> The fields that form the ECN Counters field are:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The fields that form the ECN Counters are:
```

+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
~~~

> The fields that form the ECN Counts are:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The three ECN Counts are:
```
